14 Hours Of Refactoring And Debugging
---
_31 May 2019_

What started as a relatively simple task - raising state out of the profile page and into the redux store - turned into a massive overhaul of the entire project. Almost every file has been poured over with a fine toothed come to ensure that it works just right, and that the coding standards are up to scratch with the rest of the project.

I started working at midnight, which is typical for me lately but I'm still working on it now at 2pm. This was... quite an experience. Also, the mere fact that I'm still excited about this project after this ordeal shows that there is definitely something worth working on here.

I began working on equipment before the refactoring, and the equipment was passed over during it, simply because I haven't finished it yet. However, now that the profile is stored in redux, I should be able to access information such as the scientist count much more easily. So, look forward to the equipment, coming... tomorrow probably. I'm about to get some sleep.

```js
{
	"Weapons": {
		"Stick": { "cost": 50, "combatBoost": 0.02, "scientistsRequired": 1 },
		"Dagger": { "cost": 75, "combatBoost": 0.03, "scientistsRequired": 2 },
		"Sword": { "cost": 100, "combatBoost": 0.04, "scientistsRequired": 3 },
		"Longsword": { "cost": 150, "combatBoost": 0.05, "scientistsRequired": 4 },
		"Frying Pan": { "cost": 200, "combatBoost": 0.06, "scientistsRequired": 5 }
	},
	"Armour": {
		"Leather": { "cost": 75, "combatBoost": 0.02, "scientistsRequired": 2 },
		"Gambeson": { "cost": 100, "combatBoost": 0.03, "scientistsRequired": 3 },
		"Chainmail": { "cost": 150, "combatBoost": 0.04, "scientistsRequired": 4 },
		"Platemail": { "cost": 200, "combatBoost": 0.05, "scientistsRequired": 5 }
	}
}
```

In the mean time, here's the placeholder data for the equipment! I probably shouldn't be showing this, but meh. It's stored as a JSON file, rather than in the database, to make it faster to edit. Player inventories will be stored in the database, however.

Oh, also, who would like a public-facing API? I'm not sure what for though, but still...

P.S. The wait time between recruitments has been lowered to <span style="color:red">20 hours</span>.

